docs: Add migrations notes for Sway 0.67.0 (#73)
FuelLabs/breaking-change-log: docs/src/migrations/sway.md

# Sway Migrations Guide

## March 13, 2024

[Release v0.67.0](https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/releases/tag/v0.67.0)

### New `forc migrate`

> Below are a simplified example of how to migrate your project quickly. For more information on how to use `forc migrate` please refer to the [forc migrate docs](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/forc/plugins/forc_migrate/#forc-migrate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a simplified example of how to migrate your project quickly. For more information on how to use `forc migrate` please refer to the [`forc migrate` docs](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/forc/plugins/forc_migrate/#forc-migrate).
```

> > Important: Using `forc migrate` requires you to use the version of Sway right before the next release of the breaking change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Important: Using `forc migrate` requires you to use the version of Sway right before the breaking change version.
```

> For example breaking changes for Sway will come in version `v0.67.0`, you will need to use `v0.66.0` to run `forc migrate`. in order to migrate properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, breaking changes for Sway will come in version `v0.67.0`, you will need to use `v0.66.10` to run `forc migrate`, in order to migrate properly.
```

You can compile and migrate using the previous latest version by running the following command:

```bash
fuelup component add forc@0.66.10
```

#### 1. Run `forc migrate show`

> Running `forc migrate show` will show you the breaking changes within your project. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `forc migrate show` will inform you about all the breaking changes in the next release. For example:
```

```sh

> Breaking change features:
>   - storage_domains    (https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6701)
> 
> Migration steps (1 manual and 1 semiautomatic):
> storage_domains
>   [M] Review explicitly defined slot keys in storage declarations (`in` keywords)
>   [S] Explicitly define storage slot keys if they need to be backward compatible
> 
> Experimental feature flags:
> - for Forc.toml:  experimental = { storage_domains = true }
> - for CLI:        --experimental storage_domains

Reviewer: Perhaps it would be good here to show all or at least two of the breaking changes coming in the next release.
```suggestion
Breaking change features:
  - storage_domains            (https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6701)
  - partial_eq                 (https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6883)
  - try_from_bytes_for_b256    (https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6994)
  - merge_core_std             (https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/7006)

Migration steps (1 manual, 3 semiautomatic, and 3 automatic):
storage_domains
  [M] Review explicitly defined slot keys in storage declarations (`in` keywords)
  [S] Explicitly define storage slot keys if they need to be backward compatible

partial_eq
  [A] Implement experimental `PartialEq` and `Eq` traits
  [S] Remove deprecated `Eq` trait implementations and `experimental_partial_eq` attributes

try_from_bytes_for_b256
  [A] Replace `b256::from(<bytes>)` calls with `b256::try_from(<bytes>).unwrap()`
  [A] Replace `<bytes>.into()` calls with `<bytes>.try_into().unwrap()`

merge_core_std
  [S] Replace `core` with `std` in paths

Experimental feature flags:
- for Forc.toml:  experimental = { storage_domains = true, partial_eq = true, try_from_bytes_for_b256 = true, merge_core_std = true }
- for CLI:        --experimental storage_domains,partial_eq,try_from_bytes_for_b256,merge_core_std
```

Author: Thank you for this

```

#### 2. Update `forc.toml` dependencies

In your Sway project, update the `forc.toml` file to use the previous latest version of Sway.

```toml
// before

[dependencies]
standards = { git = "https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway-standards", tag = "v0.6.1" }
sway_libs = { git = "https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway-libs", tag = "v0.24.0" }
```

```toml
// after

[dependencies]
standards = { git = "https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway-standards", tag = "v0.6.3" }
sway_libs = { git = "https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway-libs", tag = "v0.24.2" }
```

#### 3. Run `forc migrate run`

> Run `forc migrate run` walk you through each of the breaking changes and helps you apply them to your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `forc migrate run` walks you through each of the breaking changes and helps you apply them to your project.
```

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps just adding a line about `forc migrate check`.
```suggestion
If you just want to see the breaking changes in your project without migrating them, you can run `forc migrate check`.
```

```sh

>    Compiling mira_amm_contract (/Users/calldelegation/mira-v1-core/contracts/mira_amm_contract)

Reviewer: I am not sure if you usually anonymize the CLI output in the docs? If no, please just ignore the suggestion :smile: 
```suggestion
   Compiling mira_amm_contract (/mira-v1-core/contracts/mira_amm_contract)
```

Author: Good catch

warning: unused manifest key: build-profile.?.release.experimental
   Migrating Breaking change feature storage_domains
     Checked [storage_domains]  Review explicitly defined slot keys in storage declarations (`in` keywords)
      Review [storage_domains]  Explicitly define storage slot keys if they need to be backward compatible
info: [storage_domains] Explicitly define storage slot keys if they need to be backward compatible

>   --> /Users/calldelegation/mira-v1-core/contracts/mira_amm_contract/src/main.sw:65:1

Reviewer: Same here.
```suggestion
  --> /mira-v1-core/contracts/mira_amm_contract/src/main.sw:65:1
```

   = help:  
   = help: For a detailed migration guide see: https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6701
____

The following storage fields will have slot keys calculated by using the new formula:
  - storage.pools
  - storage.total_pools
  - storage.total_reserves
  - storage.lp_total_supply
  - storage.lp_name
  - storage.protocol_fees
  - storage.hook

Do you want these fields to have backward compatible storage slot keys, calculated
by using the previous formula?

If yes, this migration step will insert `in` keywords to all of the above fields,
and calculate the storage slot keys by using the previous formula.

1. Yes, assign the backward compatible storage slot keys.
2. No, this contract does not require backwards compatibility.
Enter your choice [1..2]: 1
    Changing [storage_domains]  Explicitly define storage slot keys if they need to be backward compatible
Source code successfully changed (7 changes).
    Finished Project is compatible with the next breaking change version of Sway
```

#### 4. Switch to the latest version of Sway

```sh
// Assuming you have 0.67.0 installed
fuelup default latest
```

#### 5. Compile your project

```sh
forc build
```

> > Using the forc migration tool is highly recommended, and the changes below are only for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Using the `forc migrate` tool is highly recommended, and the changes below are only for reference.
```

### Compiler/std-lib: storage collison between variables and StorageMap, allows hidden backdoors, likely loss of funds - [#6701](https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway/issues/6701)

> Certain storage types, like, e.g., StorageMap allow storage slots of their contained elements to be defined based on developer's input. E.g., the key in a StorageMap used to calculate the storage slot is a developer input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certain storage types, like, e.g., `StorageMap` allow storage slots of their contained elements to be defined based on developer's input. E.g., the key in a `StorageMap` used to calculate the storage slot is a developer input.
```

> To ensure that pre-images of such storage slots can never be the same as a pre-image of compiler generated key of a storage field, we will prefix the pre-images of storage fields with a single byte that denotes the storage field domain. Storage types like StorageMap must have a different domain prefix than this STORAGE_DOMAIN which will be set to 0u8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that pre-images of such storage slots can never be the same as a pre-image of compiler generated key of a storage field, we will prefix the pre-images of storage fields with a single byte that denotes the storage field domain. Storage types like `StorageMap` must have a different domain prefix than this storage field domain which will be set to 0u8.
```
